{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Arial;}{\f1\fmodern Courier New;}}
\fs24\b Project: Skills International School Management System\b0\par
\par
\b 1. Project Overview\b0\par
This document describes the deliverables required for the project, provides GUI and database design guidance, code snippets to connect the system to SQL Server, and a submission checklist. Include screenshots of each form and code snippets in the final Microsoft Word submission.
\par
\b 2. Requirements (from instructor)\b0\par
1. Design the software system according to the given instructions.\par
2. Use appropriate fonts, colors, and images for Frontend (GUI design).\par
3. System must have a database and be properly connected (SQL Server).\par
4. Database must contain at least one table (see sample structure below).\par
5. Test the software and submit before the deadline.\par
6. Create a Microsoft Word Document including screenshots of forms and code snippets.\par
7. Include full project brief in the document.
\par
\b 3. GUI Design Guidance\b0\par
- Recommended fonts: "Segoe UI" (UI), "Arial" (fallback).\par
- Sizes: Labels 10-12pt, Inputs 10-12pt, Form title 14-16pt.\par
- Colors: Use a neutral background (e.g., #F5F7FA), primary accent (e.g., #2B6CB0 - blue), success (#2F855A - green), error (#E53E3E - red).\par
- Images: Use school logo at top-left of main forms (PNG with transparency).\par
- Accessibility: Ensure contrast ratio and keyboard navigation for controls.
\par
\b 4. Database Design (SQL Server)\b0\par
- Use SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) to create the database (example name: `SkillsDB`).\par
- Example table: `Students` (this is the "minimum one table" required).\par
\b SQL script to create table:\b0\par
\f1\fs20
CREATE TABLE Students (\par
    Id INT IDENTITY(1,1) PRIMARY KEY,\par
    AdmissionNo VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL UNIQUE,\par
    FirstName NVARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,\par
    LastName NVARCHAR(100) NULL,\par
    DOB DATE NULL,\par
    Gender VARCHAR(10) NULL,\par
    Class VARCHAR(50) NULL,\par
    Email VARCHAR(100) NULL,\par
    Phone VARCHAR(20) NULL,\par
    Address NVARCHAR(255) NULL,\par
    CreatedAt DATETIME DEFAULT GETDATE()\par
);\par
\f0\fs24
\par
\b Connection string examples (for .NET Framework 4.7.2)\b0\par
- Windows Authentication:\par
`Data Source=SERVERNAME;Initial Catalog=SkillsDB;Integrated Security=True;`\par
- SQL Server Authentication:\par
`Data Source=SERVERNAME;Initial Catalog=SkillsDB;User ID=sa;Password=YourPassword;`\par
\par
\b 5. C# code snippets\b0\par
\f1\fs20
// Example: open connection and query students\par
using System.Data.SqlClient;\par
string connStr = "Data Source=SERVERNAME;Initial Catalog=SkillsDB;Integrated Security=True;";\par
using (var conn = new SqlConnection(connStr))\par
{\par
    conn.Open();\par
    using (var cmd = new SqlCommand("SELECT TOP 10 * FROM Students", conn))\par
    using (var reader = cmd.ExecuteReader())\par
    {\par
        while (reader.Read())\par
        {\par
            // read fields: reader["FirstName"].ToString();\par
        }\par
    }\par
}\par
\par
// Example: simple login check against a Users table\par
string loginQuery = "SELECT COUNT(1) FROM Users WHERE Username=@u AND PasswordHash=@p";\par
using (var cmd = new SqlCommand(loginQuery, conn))\par
{\par
    cmd.Parameters.AddWithValue("@u", username);\par
    cmd.Parameters.AddWithValue("@p", passwordHash);\par
    int count = Convert.ToInt32(cmd.ExecuteScalar());\par
    bool success = (count > 0);\par
}\par
\f0\fs24
\par
\b 6. Testing checklist\b0\par
- Verify DB connection strings and connectivity in SSMS.\par
- Test create/read/update/delete (CRUD) operations for at least one table.\par
- Test login and registration workflows (valid and invalid inputs).\par
- Validate UI responsiveness and control tab order.\par
\par
\b 7. Preparing the Word submission\b0\par
1. Open Microsoft Word and create a new document.\par
2. Create a cover page with project title, your name, date, and brief description.\par
3. For each form in the system (e.g., Login, Registration, Main Dashboard):\par
   - Insert a screenshot (Insert > Pictures).\par
   - Provide a short description of the form purpose.\par
   - Paste the relevant code snippet for form logic (use `Courier New` font).\par
4. Include the SQL script used to create the database (as a code snippet).\par
5. Add a section for testing results and any known issues.\par
6. Add the project brief and submission checklist.\par
7. Save the Word document as `SkillsProject_Report.docx` and include it in submission.
\par
\b 8. Project brief (example summary to include)\b0\par
- Objective: Build a Windows Forms application for managing student records for Skills International School.\par
- Key features: User authentication (Login), Student registration, Student list and search, Basic reporting/print.\par
- Technologies: .NET Framework 4.7.2, Windows Forms, SQL Server (database), Visual Studio (IDE).\par
- Deliverables: Source code, database script (.sql), `SkillsProject_Report.docx` with screenshots and code snippets.
\par
\b 9. Submission checklist\b0\par
- [ ] Source code (complete project folder).\par
- [ ] SQL script file (`CreateDatabase.sql`).\par
- [ ] `SkillsProject_Report.docx` with screenshots and code snippets.\par
- [ ] All forms tested (screenshots attached).\par
\par
\b End of document\b0\par
}
